in the last video we talked about the
multivariate Gaussian distribution and
saw some examples of the sorts of
distributions you can model as you vary
the parameters mu and Sigma in this
video let's take those ideas and apply
them to develop a different anomaly
detection algorithm to recap the
multivariate Gaussian distribution of
the multivariate normal distribution has
two parameters mu and Sigma where mu is
an n-dimensional vector and Sigma the
covariance matrix is an N by n matrix
and here's the formula for the property
of X as parametrized by mu and Sigma and
as you vary mu and Sigma you can get a
range of different distributions like
you know these are to be examples that
the ones that we saw in the previous
video so let's talk about the parameter
fitting or the parameter estimation
problem the question as usual is if I
have a set of examples x1 through XM and
here are each of these examples is an n
dimensional vector and I think my
examples come from a multivariate
Gaussian distribution how do I try to
estimate my parameters mu and Sigma well
the standard formulas for estimating
them is you sent you to be just the
average of your training examples and
you set Sigma to be equal to this and
this is actually just like the Sigma
that we have written out when we were
using the PCA or their principal
components
so you just planted these two formulas
and this would give you your estimated
parameter mu and your estimated
parameter Sigma so given the data set
here's how you has been real Sigma let's
take this method and just plug it into
an anomaly detection algorithm so how do
we put all this together to develop an
anomaly detection algorithm yes what we
do first we take our training set and we
fit the model we fit P of x by setting
mu and Sigma as described on the
previous line next when you're given a
new example X so if you're given the
test example let's take an earlier
example let's say have a new example out
here and that's my test example during
the new example X we're going to do is
compute P of X using this formula for
the multivariate Gaussian distribution
and then if P of X is very small then we
flagged it as an anomaly whereas if P of
X is greater than that parameter epsilon
that we don't like it as an anomaly so
it turns out if you were to fit a
multivariate Gaussian distribution to
this data set to just a red crosses
right not the green example you end up
with a Gaussian distribution that places
lots of probability in the central
region slightly less probability here
study less probably here slightly less
probably here and very low probability
at the point that's way out here
and so if you apply the multivariate
Gaussian distribution to this example it
will actually correctly flag that
example as an anomaly
finally it's worth saying a few words
about what is the relationship between
the multivariate Gaussian distribution
model and the original model where we
were modeling P of X as a product of
missus P of X 1 P of X 2 up to P of X n
it turns out that you can prove
mathematically I'm not going to do the
proof yet we can prove mathematically
that this relationship between the
multivariate Gaussian dismiss original
one and in particular turns out that the
original model corresponds to
multivariate gaussians where the
contours of the Gaussian are always acts
as aligned and so all three of these are
examples of Gaussian distributions that
you can fit using the original model
turns out that that corresponds to
multivariate Gaussian where you know the
ellipse this year.the the contours of
this distribution it turns out that this
model actually corresponds to a special
case of a multivariate Gaussian
distribution and in particular the
special case is defined by constraining
the distribution of P of X the
multivariate Gaussian distribution of P
of X so that the contours of the prior
density function of the probability
distribution function are axis aligned
and so you can get you know a P of X
with a multivariate Gaussian that looks
like this or like this or like this and
you notice that in all three of these
examples these ellipses are these ovals
not drawing have their axes aligns with
the x1 x2 axis and what we do not have
is a set of contours that I had enough
at an angle right and this correspond to
examples where a Sigma is equal to one
one 0.8 0.8 let's say with nonzero
elements on the off diagonals so it
turns out that it is possible to show
mathematically that this model actually
is the same as a multivariate Gaussian
distribution but with a constraint and
the constraint is that the covariance
matrix Sigma must have zeros on the off
diagonal elements in particular of the
covariance matrix Sigma this thing here
it would be sigma squared 1 sigma square
2 down 2 Sigma squared n and then
everything on the off diagonal entries
in all of these elements above and below
the diagonal of that matrix
all of those are going to be 0 and in
fact if you take these values of Sigma
Sigma square ones who put two dancers in
the screen and and plug them into here
and you know plug them into this
covariance matrix then the two models
are actually identical that is this new
model
using the multivariate Gaussian
distribution corresponds exactly to the
old model if the covariance matrix Sigma
has only zero elements of the diagonals
and then pictures that corresponds to
having Gaussian distributions where the
contours of this distribution function
are excess aligned so you aren't allowed
to model the correlations between the
different features so in that sense the
original model is actually a special
case of this multivariate Gaussian model
so what would you use each of these two
models so what would you use the
original model or use the multivariate
Gaussian model
the original model is probably used
somewhat more often and and whereas the
multivariate Gaussian distribution you
see you know some of this but it has the
advantage of being able to capture
correlations between features so suppose
you want to capture anomalies where you
have different features say where
features x1 x2 take on unusual
combinations of values so in the earlier
example we had an example where you know
the anomaly was with the cpu load and
the memory use taking on unusual
combinations of values if you want to
use the original model to capture that
then what you need to do is create an
extra feature such as like 3 equals x 1
over X to the equals uh maybe the CPU
knows
you know / the memory uses I think and
you need to create extra features if
it's unusual combinations of values
where x1 and x2 take on an unusual
combination of values even though x1 by
itself and x2 by and x2 by itself those
like sticking a perfectly normal value
but if you're willing to spend a time to
manually create an extra feature like
this then the original model will work
fine whereas in contrast the
multivariate Gaussian model can
automatically capture correlations
between different features but the
original model has some other
minimalistic liftin advantages too and
one huge advantage that the original
model is that it is computationally
cheaper and another view on this is that
it scales better to very large values of
m to very large numbers of features and
so even if n were say 10,000 or even if
n when y equals to a hundred thousand
the original model will usually work
just fine whereas in contrast for the
multivariate Gaussian model notice here
for example that we need to compute the
inverse of the matrix Sigma where Sigma
is an N by n matrix and so computing
Sigma if you know Sigma is a hundred
thousand five hundred thousand matrix
that's going to be very computationally
expensive and so the multivariate
Gaussian model scales less well to wash
values of N
and finally for the original model it
turns out to work okay even if you have
a relatively smaller training set this
is a small unlabeled examples that we
use to model P of X of course it's just
what's fine even if M is you know give
me about fifty a hundred was fine
whereas for the multivariate Gaussian it
is sort of a mathematical property of
the algorithm that you must have n m
greater than n so that the number of
examples is greater than the number of
features you have and there's a
mathematical property of the way we
estimate the parameters that if this is
not true so if M is less than or equal
to n then this matrix isn't even
invertible that is this matrix a
singular and so you can't even use the
multivariate Gaussian model unless you
make some changes to it but typical rule
of thumb that I use is you know I will
use the multivariate Gaussian model only
of M is much greater than and so this
saw the narrow mathematical requirement
but in practice I would use the
multivariate Gaussian model only um were
quite a bit bigger than n so if n were
greater than or equal to 10 times
endless they might be a reasonable row
of them and if it doesn't satisfy this
then you know the multivariate Gaussian
model has a lot of parameters right so
this covariance matrix Sigma is an N by
n matrix so it has you know roughly n
square parameters being because a
symmetric matrix is actually 12 32 and
squared over 2 parameters but this is a
lot of parameters and so you need to
make sure you have a fairly large value
for M make sure
have enough data to fit all these
parameters and M greater than or equal
to ten and would be a reasonable rule of
thumb to make sure that you can estimate
this covariance matrix Sigma is nothing
more so in practice the original model
shown on the left that is used more
often and if you suspect that you need
to capture correlations between features
what people will often do is just you
know manually design extra features like
these to capture specific unusual
combinations of values but in problems
where you have a very large training set
where m is very large and and yes it's
not too large then the multivariate
Gaussian model is well worth considering
that may work better as well and can
save you from having to spend you know
spend the time to manually create extra
features in case the anomaly is turned
out to be captured by unusual
combinations of values of the features
finally I just want to briefly mention
one somewhat technical property but if
you fitting multivariate Gaussian model
and if you find that the covariance
matrix Sigma is singular or found is
non-invertible there are usually two
cases for this one is if is failing to
satisfy this imprinted in name condition
and the second case is if you have
redundant features so by redundant
features I mean if you have two features
that are saying somehow you accidentally
made two copies in the future so X 1 is
just equal to X 2 or if you have
redundant features and maybe of like
maybe feature X 3 is equal to feature X
4 plus feature X 5 ok so if you have
highly redundant features like these you
know where if I X 3 is equal to X 1 plus
X 5 well X 3 doesn't contain any extra
information right you just you take
these two other
we add them together and if you have
this sort of redundant features
duplicate the features or disorder
features then Sigma or maybe
non-invertible and so there's a
debugging set this very rarely
happened so you probably won't run than
it is it's very unlikely or to worry
about this but in case you implement a
multivariate Gaussian model and you find
that Sigma is not invertible what I
would do is first make sure that M is
you know quite a bit bigger than him and
if it is then the second thing I do is
just check for redundant features and so
if you have two features that equal just
get rid of one of them or if you have
redundant beast IDs x2 equals x plus y
just carefully load the redundant
feature an initial work fine again as an
aside for those of you that are
excellence in linear algebra by
redundant features what I mean is the
formal Turnus features that are in a
nearly dependent but in practice you
know what that really means is a is one
of these problems tripping up the Africa
and if you just make your features non
redundant that should solve the problem
of Sigma being non-invertible but once
again the author you're running into
this at all are pretty low so what
chances are you you can just apply the
multivariate Gaussian model without
having to worry about Sigma being
non-invertible so long as M is great in
any way
so that's it for anomaly detection with
the multivariate Gaussian distribution
and if you apply this method you'd be
able to have an anomaly detection
algorithm that automatically captures
positive and negative correlations
between your different features and
Flags an anomaly ever sees an unusual
combination of the values of your
features